NextJS template tutorial (#429)
flowershow/flowershow: site/content/blog/2023-02-16-nextjs-tutorial.md

---
title: Jumpstart a content-driven NextJS site with Flowershow
description: This article will guide you through the process of building a basic static blog with Next.js using the Flowershow template.
created: 2023-02-16
authors: [philippe-du-preez]
---

> Have you ever considered creating a blog or documentation site for your open-source library or personal project?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Have you ever considered creating a blog or documentation site for your open-source library or personal project? Maybe you always wanted to, but you didn't really have time to set everything up from scratch, and so you ended up keeping your awesome writings hidden from the world? This is why started working on Flowershow - a project that can help you focus on your content, while we do the heavy lifting for you.
```

This article will guide you through the process of building a basic static blog with Next.js using the Flowershow template.

## What is Flowershow

> [Flowershow](https://flowershow.app/) is a versatile NextJS template that you can use to quickly create a content-driven website from Markdown/MDX files with ease.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Flowershow](https://flowershow.app/) is a versatile NextJS template that you can use to create a content-driven website from Markdown/MDX files quickly and easily.
```

> [Flowershow](https://flowershow.app/) is a versatile NextJS template that you can use to quickly create a content-driven website from Markdown/MDX files with ease.
> 
> Flowershow uses TypeScript, Contentlayer and Tailwind, which makes it a frictionless experience adding content and styling it. You can deploy your website in seconds on Netlify, Vercel or any other hosting platforms. Whether you are looking to build a blog, a documentation rich site or any other content driven site, Flowershow makes this very easy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Flowershow](https://flowershow.app/) is a versatile NextJS template that you can use to quickly create a content-driven website from Markdown/MDX files with ease.

Flowershow uses TypeScript, Contentlayer and Tailwind, which makes it a frictionless experience adding content and styling it. You can deploy your website in seconds on Netlify, Vercel or any other static site hosting platforms. Whether you are looking to build a blog, a documentation rich site or any other content driven site, Flowershow makes this very easy.
```

Run the following command in the terminal and then pass a name of your project when prompted (we'll name it `my-flowershow-app` for the purpose of this tutorial).

```shell
npx create-next-app@latest --example https://github.com/flowershow/flowershow/tree/main/packages/template
```

After the command has finished running, your project structure should look similar to this:

```shell
my-flowershow-app
├── components
├── config
├── layouts
├── lib
├── pages
├── public
├── scripts
├── styles
├── contentlayer.config.ts
├── next.config.mjs
├── tailwind.config.cjs
├── package-lock.json
├── package.json
├── ...
└── README.md
```

The only thing that's missing is a `/content` folder with some markdown files you'd like to publish.

If you already have a folder with some files, e.g. your blog pages, you can move them to your Flowershow project, like so:

```
mv <path-to-my-content-folder> my-flowershow-app/content
```

Your `index.md` file in the root of the `content` folder will be your home page.

> [!NOTE]
> Check [Next.js documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/create-next-app) to learn more about this command and other options you can run it with.

> You should be able to run `npm run dev`, where Contentlayer will fetch all the needed data and transform that data into structured content. Content is structured using a custom schema defined in `contentlayer.config.ts`. Once content is fetched and transformed, it is used to populate various parts of the website , such as text, images, and other media.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now run `npm run dev`. At this point Contentlayer will grab all your markdown files, convert them to JSON files and put them into `.contentlayer` folder. The output JSON files will be structured according to the document schemas defined in `contentlayer.config.ts`. All the files by default will be of `Page` type (apart from files you put inside `content/blog` folder, which we'll talk about later). Flowershow template then imports there files and transforms them into your website's pages.
```

### Basic configuration

Flowershow supports setting common configuration values using a `config.js` file, which should be placed in the root of the `/content` folder. With it you can customize some things like website title, navigation links in the navbar, or set your google analytics key.

Let's create one:

```shell
touch my-flowershow-app/content/config.js
```

Then add some new configuration to your project eg.

```jsx
const config = {
  // title will be displayed on the top of your site
  title: "My Awesome Blog",
  // adding a description helps with SEO
  description: "This is my awesome blog built with Flowershow",
  // author of site displayed on the bottom of your site
  author: "John",
  // logo image
  authorLogo: "/images/logo.svg",
  // url to author website
  authorUrl: "https://john.app/",
  // links to the pages you want to link to in the navbar
  navLinks: [{ href: "/about", name: "About" }],
};

export default config;
```

> [!NOTE]
> If you want to learn more about other available configuration options, see https://flowershow.app/docs/config.

> 

Reviewer: I think `npm run dev` will only work here, i.e. after creating the `config.js` file.

|      └─ my-blog-post.md
└── ...
```

with the following frontmatter:

- `title` - title that will be displayed on blog home page and blog post
- `description` - description will be displayed on the page with all blogs listed (which we'll create later)
- `created` (required) - date that will be displayed on the blog page and that will be used to sort blog search results
- `authors` (optional) - This will search for authors and display their images on the post ([Authors docs](https://flowershow.app/docs/blog#blog-authors))

So your `my-blog-post.md` file looks like this:

```md
---
title: Blog post title
description: This blog post is about how to write a blog
created: 2022-11-29
authors: [John Doe, Jane Doe]
---

All our content for the post will go here.
```

### Creating a home page for your blogs/news/tutorials pages

In order to list all your blog posts on a given page, you can use our `BlogsList` component and pass it a list of your blog posts. It's globally available, so you don't need to import it in your mdx file.

The `BlogsList` component requires a `simple` page layout, which you need to specify in the frontmatter of your `content/blog/index.md` page.

```
---

> layout: simple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: All my blogs
layout: simple
```
